---
layout: post
title: Alien Pop: An Otherworldly Soundscape
permalink: /alien-pop/
description:
img: Alien-Pop.png
credit: https://www.sandralisidesign.com
tags: [Music]
---

From the moment I heard <a href="https://rythur.bandcamp.com/album/alien-pop" data-goatcounter-click="alien-pop" data-umami-event="alien-pop" target="_blank">Alien Pop</a>, I knew I was in for a ride. Maybe onboard a stolen spaceship or clinging to the back of a tricked-out bicycle, but a wild and hair-tousling excursion nonetheless. This is evident from the first few notes of the album, with its almost unnatural rhythmic thumping, daring you to hear with new ears and beckoning you in with a sinister smile. But it is not all foreign sounds and mischief; there is a familiarity to the songs that make you feel like you are taking the hand of a new strange friend. Someone who is showing you all the ways you are different inside too and giving you a cause to celebrate it.

When you get to know the artist behind *Alien Pop*, it is not at all surprising how this unusual piece of work came into being. <a href="https://rythur.bandcamp.com" data-goatcounter-click="rythur" data-umami-event="rythur" target="_blank">Rythur</a> himself is a unique character, with a polymath mind and the heart of a hummingbird \~ beating fervently to fuel the wings for his next stellar flight. He is equally excited to be solving obscure mathematical problems as he is to be leaping into the air on his BMX bike. As a multi-creative, you can find him experimenting with all mediums of art and this makes its way into everything he does. But don't expect something conventional to come out of this wandering soul. Just when you think the melody hits its stride, it will veer off course and leave you pleasantly bewildered.

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 400px; height: 340px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=2646258534/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=0687f5/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://rythur.bandcamp.com/album/alien-pop">Alien Pop by Rythur</a></iframe>

Recorded in a turn of the century 1900s stone cabin, *Alien Pop* and the Texas-born minstrel who threaded its tunes could not be more at home than in the rugged foothills of the Colorado basin. With the mixes bouncing off the ancient rock and echoing down the nearby river, it carved out an unlikely groove between the past and present. This duet of space and time weaves together the folk elements that are in kinship with the natural surroundings and the boundary-pushing themes that whisk you into new territories. But its journey did not end there. This six-song, genre-bending work made its way across the pond to Cambridge, where it received the masterful attention of music producer Simone Silvestroni from Minutes to Midnight, who also lent his supreme bass skills on the captivating song "I Wanna Knw." The yearning and pleading found on this downtempo track are the perfect juxtaposition to the joyful opener "From On High" and the playful love-sickness found throughout the album.

Finally and most notably, the musical style of Alien Pop could not be better paired with its lyrical rap. The words themselves dance with vigor, alternating between silly jester and wise provocateur. Spinning in and out of the layered beats with an effortless certainty. Saying to the Universe, *"This is how it is and was and always will be."* And with that, you shouldn't fight it. Let your body move to the irresistible sounds and your brain latch on to the myriad of catch phrases dotting this otherworldly soundscape. For here is a place where the alienated can come to discover a world of infinite connection.

*<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/about">Megan Longcor</a> is a freelance writer, lifelong music lover, and multi-trained scientist.*

[No AI was used in the writing of this review.]